So what's more and what does Merwin stand for.
The M stands for Mongo TB and that is a database solution.
The E stands for Express.
I'll come back to what this is.
In a second.
The R stands for react.
J.S. and this is a browser site javascript library that helps us build amazing user interfaces and the
N stands for no chance.
This is a service site javascript runtime an environment where javascript code can be executed outside
of the browser and now express J.S. is a framework for no chance.
So in the end makes building no try as applications easier now combined.
These technologies form the so-called Mearns stack.
They work together particularly well and you can build amazing full stack web applications with these
four technologies working together.
So let's take a closer look at each of these technologies to understand which role it plays exactly
in that tech stack.
So what's react react is a client side.
So on the browser library which allows you to build highly reactive user interfaces.
So it's all about building user interfaces with react.
You write JavaScript code that will be executed in the browser and since it runs there it is responsible
for controlling what the user sees on the screen and how things they are change when a button is clicked
when something is entered into input box.
It's really all about that.
It's about rendering a user interface with dynamic data and about updating it when data changes or when
certain events occur.
It's about handling user input and providing feedback to the user.
And it's also and data is where the other free technologies will come into play.
It's all about communicating with backend services and with backend I mean services or technologies
that don't run in the browser of your user.
So react so to say is the front end.
The other three technologies node Express and Mongo TB to gather make up the back end.
Now we use libraries like react and there are alternatives like angular with which you would have to
mean stack instead of the moon stack which do the same.
But we use such technologies to provide users with a mobile app like user experience where everything
happens instantly where we have a great reactivity where things on the user interface really feel great
and and in standard we simply provide a really awesome and amazing user experience.
Now what about the other technologies what is node Exactly.
It's a javascript runtime typically used or often used to create server side JavaScript applications.
Now technically that's not the only thing you can use it for but it is one of the most prominent use
cases and scenarios you can use notes J.S. to execute javascript outside of the browser.
And since it runs outside of the browser you can for example use it to create a web server with it.
So to run it on some machine which is exposed to the Internet which then accepts requests and sends
back responses so we can then use JavaScript as a service site programming language as an alternative
to p HP as Pete on Nat Java and so on basically with no trials we can listen to requests and sent back
responses.
We can execute service side logic and we can also interact with databases and with files things we typically
don't do in the browser or we can't do in the browser since we're not tied to the browser anymore.
There are certain things we can't do anymore.
For example interact with the DOM because there is no Dom it's running outside of the browser but there
are new things we can do for example.
Well write files or do things like this and therefore as I said it's an alternative to our suicide programming
languages and just like those languages.
It's also important to note that it's rarely used stand alone.
Instead typically we use it combined with express and express is a notorious framework so we still write.
Note J.S. javascript code but we get utility functions and assert the way of structuring and building
our applications so a certain rules set we adhere to basically which makes building no tree as applications
much much easier.
So it's based on no choice but gives us new functionalities.
It's strictly middleware based and you will learn what that means for the course.
Which means we have a clear way of handling requests a clear funnel through which all requests are passed
where we then can extract data or prepared a response.
And in general with our features like routing view rendering and more we've got a lot of tools and clear
rules that almost force us to write amazing and really well working no chess applications.
So it really simplifies the usage of no trials.
And if you know p HP it's a bit like what lable is for P HP.
An amazing framework that simplifies the usage of the language.
And that leaves us with Mongo D.B. what is Mongo D.B. about Mongo TB is a nose sequel database engine
which allows us to store documents in so-called collections instead of records and tables as you would
have it in sequel.
So it's a database engine.
It's all about storing data.
It's about storing our application data.
Specifically we use Mongo D.B. in this course.
And in general to store for example our users our products or whatever our application is about.
Unlike sequel it doesn't enforce a schema for our data.
We can still build one and use one if we want to but we're not forced to.
And we also don't need to work with relations.
We can still set up kind of relations but it's all a lot looser than it is in sequel.
You're not forced to do these things and this is the case on purpose of course because it also gives
you many advantages.
For example no sequel databases like Mongo TB often give you amazing performance because they're way
more flexible.
It's also very easy to connect it to Node and express because as you will see for all this course writing
queries against Mongo TB is really straight forward and super easy when working with JavaScript anyways.
So it's really fun and easy to use Mongo TB in JavaScript applications now for security reasons as you
will also learn throughout this course.
We don't connect to mongo TB directly from inside our ReACT application.
Instead we do that with the help of node and express and that is how we then have all these technologies
work together.
So it's a powerful database which can easily be integrated into a node express environment.
Technically however you could also swap Mongo D.B. for other database engines.
It wouldn't be the Mearns stick anymore because well our M would be gone but of course you could also
you build an app with react node Express and some other database.
But as I said long would he be really works well and is super easy to use.